Step 1:
Download iHadoop.tar.gz in master machine and jobtracker into /home/$username directory.

Step 2:
Untar iHadoop.tar.gz with the following command on both master and jobtracker. 
$tar -xvzf iHadoop.tar.gz

Step 3:
Goto to directory iHadoop and type following command to start the script on the master machine.

$bin/startsh.sh

For installing hadoop choice 1 should be selected.
For installing Fully Distributed cluster choice 2 should be selected
So if you are installing Hadoop for the first time please execute all the steps in the given sequence
otherwise you can select the choice as required.

Step 4:
 In Order to install fully distributed cluster, first step is to set the prerequisites required for fully distributed cluster.For that option 1 should be selected.
just press enter
Select the option one by one to enter the server details.

Note:While entering master details all other server details will be reset.So all other server details should be entered only after entering master server details.

If you have already entered the server details it will show you the server details before showing the menu.


In order to enter master server details enter choice 1.
Enter the username(for e.g.- test),ip address(for e.g.- 172.17.197.205) and hostname(for e.g.- vanshish)

Repeat the same procedure for all the servers i.e checkpoint,jobtracker,slaves
After Server details are entered.Press option 5.

Step 5:
Select option 2 to install Hadoop on all the nodes.
Enter the version you want to install and then enter option 2 to install that version on all the servers 

Step 6:

Enter option 3 to configure the hadoop cluster.
Enter the port number for namenode(for e.g.- 9000) 
Note: port number should be greater than 1024
Enter the port number for jobtracker(for e.g.- 9001)
Note: port number should be greater than 1024
Enter the hostname for namenode(for e.g.- vanshish)
Enter the hostname for jobtracker(for e.g.- DEBARSHI)
Enter the replication factor(for e.g. 2)
Note: replication factor of cluster should be less than or equal to number of slaves in the cluster.

After the configuration is done,Again following menu will appear.

It will set up a passphraseless ssh key and will copy the public key into all the machines in the cluster.This script will also start the mapred daemons on all the machines in the cluster.
Step 7:
Enter option 4 to start the distributed file system daemons of the cluster on the master machine.
Follow the steps given in the note on all the machines in the cluster.
1.Configure hadoop-env.sh
2.copy the content of iHadoop/conf/masters,checkpoint,jobtracker,slaves file into /etc/hosts file
by logging into root in all the machines
If you are starting cluster for the first time and want to format the namenode enter y else enter n.
Now run the following command in order to see the java processes running
$jps

Step 8:
Now log into the jobtracker goto /home/test/iHadoop and run the following command 
$bin/jobtracker.sh
It will set up a passphraseless ssh key and will copy the public key into all the machines in the cluster.This script will also start the mapred daemons on all the machines in the cluster.

